hi this is pressure Locker let's discuss
math problems where people are working
together to do a job the 1994 movie
little big league features one of these
problems
Joe can paint a house in three hours and
his friend Sam can paint the same house
in five hours how long will it take if
they paint the house
together the players come up with
several wrong answers by combining the
numbers three and five the most
plausible answer is the average of four
hours but this is clearly wrong because
of joke in pink house in three hours it
has to take them less than three hours
working together the correct answer one
of the players gets two is one and
seven-eighths hour but how did he get to
this answer we need to look at the rate
of work if Joe can paint the house in
three hours then every hour he paints a
third of the house which means he paints
X over three of the house in X hours
similarly Sam will paint X over five of
the house in X hours working together we
add the rates of work to get x over
three plus X over five equals 100% we
can easily solve this equation to get
one and seven-eighths our more generally
we can think about people working at
different rates and we can consider the
time it takes them to complete the job
working together the formula is a times
B over a plus B please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can support me on patreon
catch me on my blog bind your decisions
on Twitter at pressure Walker and you
can get my books at Amazon